In this lecture we will look at how we can change the font that our text is displayed in when working
with text elements the font that we choose can be important.
Not only are fonts aesthetically important but some web browsers may not support certain fonts.
It is important that when building web pages we select fonts that will fit the design and look of our
Web site and also be able to be displayed across browsers.
The concept of a font family is important when programming in C Ss a font family is a set of fonts one
after the other.
If a browser does not support the first font it tries to use the second and so forth using a font family
can be one way to help ensure that your web page will look good across all browsers.
There are two types of font families of font family refers to specific font types such as Times New
Roman.
A generic family refers to a group of font families that look similar.
It is usually best to specify multiple font families that you want an element to have separated by commas.
The last family you specify should be a generic family in case none of the specific font families you
specified are supported by the web browser.
First let's say it a paragraph element to a web page.
Then we will add an opening and closing style tag to our code.
We will give our element of font family with fonts Times New Roman Arielle and sans serif.
And this example Times New Roman is the first font we are specifying it is in quotes because there are
spaces between the words.
Next we have specified the RDL font family.
Finally we specified a generic font sans serif.
If the browser does not support Times New Roman or Arial the browser will search for a sans serif font
to use.
Let's jump to the web browser and run our code to see the font that is displayed in.
Then we will go back to the editor and look at another example CSSA also gives us access to the font
style property to specify a style for a font.
The main feature of the font style properties that we can show are text in italic.
Let's give our text a font style of italic and then run our code in the web browser.
As you can see our text is displayed in italic.
Let's go back to the editor other values that we can assign are normal and all Bleek normal is the text
without any style and all Bleek is a style very similar to italic.
Let's change the font style to normal and then run our code as you can see our text is displayed without
any style applied to it as a result.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We will change our font style to old boutique and then run our code in the web browser.
As you can see our text is displayed in all Bleek of font style.
Very similar to italic.
Let's jump back to the editor CSSA also gives us the font size property which allows us to size our
fun.
There are several ways that we can specify a font size.
Let's run the gamut from smallest to largest to X X small value will make our text extra extra small.
Let's give our text the font size property and give it a value of x x small.
Then we will run our code in the web browser as you can see our text is displayed very small in the
web browser.
Let's jump back to the editor the next smallest size that we can assign our text is the size of x small
meaning extra small we will change the font size to X small and then run our code in the browser our
text is larger than before but still pretty small.
Then we will go back to the editor we can assign our text the font size of small to make our text render
small.
We will give our text the font size of small.
Let's run our code in the web browser
then we will go back to the editor.
We can give our text the font size of medium to render our text medium in the web browser.
We will change our font size to medium and run our code then we will go back to the editor.
We can give our text a font size of large as well.
Let's change the font size to large and run our code.
You will notice the difference in text size.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
Giving our text the font size of x large will render our front extra large in the web browser.
We will give our text the font size of x large and then run our code as you can see our text is now
extra large.
Let's go back to the editor.
Finally the largest size that we can assign are text in this manner is a value of x x large or double
extra large.
Let's change the font size of our text to x x large and then run our code in the browser.
You will notice the increase in text size then we will go back to the editor.
We can also set a font size and a length such as pixels.
For example let's give our text a font size of 25 pixels.
Then we will run our code in the web browser to see the effect of this change.
Let's jump back to the editor.
In addition we can also specify a percentage to assign a font size to our text.
We will change the font size to 50 percent and then run our code in the web browser to see the result.
Let's go back to the editor the CSSA font weight property specifies how thick or thin a font should
be displayed a value of bold will make our text thick we will change the font weight property to have
a value of bold and then run our code as you can see the text is now bold on the web page.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We can also assign a number value to this property from 100 to 900 in increments of 100.
So valid number values for this property are 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 and 900.
Note that 400 is the same as normal.
And 700 is the same as bold to see an example of assigning a number value for this property.
We will give our text a fine wheat value of 100.
Let's run our code
in the next lecture we will learn about text properties and CSSA.